
EDGE OF INFINITY

INSPIRATIONS:
Timewarp
Inner Space
Tyrian
DragonQueen's songs
Scud
Eddie Moonchild

The road remains wide open while your dreams are alive.
Do not look back.
Never let fear bar the way.

Like them the ship heaved, 
and unfalteringly sped forward in her race, 
lighter than the circling hawk, 
though that is swiftest of the things that fly.  
So she went, 
cleaving the ocean surges 
and bearing within her a man deep-witted as the Gods, 
one who had in the past suffered heart-break 
as the common sport of men's wars and the troublous waves, 
but who now slept in tranquil forgetfulness of all he had endured.

The World Is Bent

Failure is not a reason to give up

Those Unforgettable Days,
For Them I Live

Values of beeta will give rise to dom!

Follow your dreams,
and KEEP ON ROCKING!

There are parts of the code of chivalry that need be ignored.

Whack the whack before the whack can whack back

On, on, brave warrior,
On where death awaits thee

Two-four-six-eight
tiptoe, sneak, and infiltrate

Let the end begin!

Silence Listens
Everything Watches
Every sacred act is felt first in hell
To the condemned there are no lies
Everything changes Everything
Each horizon is a knife
Music is the judge of silence
In the ancient theatre of the night, every story is true
Fulfill your limits.  Know everything.  All else is darkness.

Tarth Cooks Make Best Strudel.  That's All, Just Strudel.


Top-down view.
Web-patterns.  Shifting fractals.  Planets, stations, asteroids, platforms, islands, nebulae.  Color-streaks.  Trees, graphs.  Speed-gates.  Teleporters.  Bouncers, pinball flippers, spiral screws, gear-crushers.  Ghosts.  Complexes, caves, stars, volcanos, gravity-wells, black holes, novae, star-crushers and eaters.  Atomos!  Carbunkle, Ramuh, lava-lamps, angels, magma chambers.  Transmats.  Madness Machines.  Amoebae, airships, tunnelers, pillows, popsicles, TEA!, punch and nibbles...  Straightline warp, circle-vortices, webspinners.  Hazard blocks, fireworks.
Fog --semitransparent layer??
Certain things /drift/.
Switches an' things that break walls, a la Sonic the Hedgehog.

Teleport gates, space-pockets
DREAMS!  Fugues.  Each has it's own color scheme/color filter.  Grey, red, blue, white, green, in that order.  Watch The Hero for inspiration.


Hidden passages/areas?  Time-pockets that are only unlocked by certain things...

Angelwings.  Firespinners.  Chompers and Gulpers.

Is your battle-skill measured and important in some way?  Reputation?  People remember their victories and defeats, at least, and hear of your exploits.


Civilization is limited to weird old hermits, renegade derelicts...

Beauty and madness
Castles in the Air
Chamber of Arcane Delights
Lost and Hidden Knowledge
The Dreams We Can't Recall
The Most Ancient Dreams
Long since gone - forever near
Calling of Spirits
Spiriting Forth

If you're short of inspiration, read some of DragonQueen's songs.  They're quite wonderful.





PEOPLE:


Factions:
Renegades
Buccaneers
Marauders
Denizens
Dark Lightning
Rescue
Knights of Celestia
Hunters
Rockhounds
Outsiders
Demons
Guild of the Sun
Troubleshooters
Toughs
Dancers
Prowlers
Exiles

(Black Hats)
*Renegades 
Utter rebels-without-a-cause.  However, are they loyal to each other or completely nihilistic?  I dunno...  I suspect a sense of camaraderie and bon homie is what distinguishes them from the Marauders.  They care for each other because they have nothing else.  A little like a street-gang, in some ways.  They do not kill and destroy for no reason, they just see no reason not to.  They have a lot of variety, from exploreres to mercenaries and bounty hunters to colonists to pirates.  The one thing they all share in common is that they used to fit in somewhere, and now they don't.  They're a pretty rough bunch, but not COMPLETELY heartless.
The best way to deal with them is: Leave them alone, probably.
Their chief is Oathbreaker.  He's an ex-Celestian Knight.

*Buccaneers
Noble thieves.  The few, the merry, the brave, the ruthless.  They have honor and rules and stick to them, but that doesn't mean they're always nice.  Occasionally they serve as mercenaries or bodyguards; when you buy them, they generally stay bought.  Think Captain Jack Sparrow.  ^_^  Ronin.
The best way to deal with them is: Charge into a fray performing heroic feats and cracking witticisms, and come out of it with either a noble prize or a glorious explosion.
Their chief is one Danielson Patrick O'Keefe, hahaha...  

*Marauders
Reavers.  They destroy and kill more or less whimsically.  All they care about is blowing stuff up.  The bigger the explosions, the better.  Helia Projectors and Archers are for pansies; give them Harbingers, and Starflares, and Nova Bombs...
The best way to deal with them is: "Hey guys, watch this!  *BOOOOOOOOM!!!!!*  *get your shields zorched and half your armor peeled off*  Hahahahahaaa!!!  That was FUN!!"
Their chief is VaBaBoom.  (XXX: different name?)

*Denizens
Raiders.  Pirates.  They can be bought off... temporarily.  They want loot and are willing to do anything to get it.  Preferably things with weapons involved, though.
The best way to deal with them is: "Um... umum... if... if I give you all my money, will you please not blow off my other wing?  Thankyouverymuch."  To which the typical response would be "Maybe.  Better hurry up."
Their chief is Wretch.

*Dark Lightning
Assassins.  Archers.  Long-distance marksmen extra-ordinare.  Dark, secretive, with their own certain agenda.  Sinister, that's the word I'm looking for.
The best way to deal with them is: You can't, because 9/10ths of the time you don't even know they're there, until it's too late.  You are merely a pawn to be manipulated.
Their chief is Lancer.


(White Hats)
*Rescue
Roving hospital services, tow-trucks, general hot-rod do-gooders.  Their only rule is that you don't shoot at them, even if they're towing off your enemies; the Denizens generally respect this, and the Buccaneers always do, but the Marauders and Renegades usually don't.  If you shoot up a Rescue in any way shape or form, you'd better make sure you don't run out of gas, 'cause they ain't gonna cry if you do.  They WILL forgive, but it takes quite a bit of work.
The best way to deal with them is: "HEEEEEEEEELP!!!!!"
Their chief is Guardian.

*Celestian Knights
The Knights of Celeste, or more generally just Knights.  The opposite of the Buccaneers.  The few, the merry, the brave, the slightly-ruthless.  They have honor and rules and stick to them, and since their rules include mercy, peace and other chivilrous things, they're somewhat less ready to massacre helpless travellers than the Buccaneers.  Silly them.  They can still be somewhat rough-and-tumble at times, though.  They are familiar with treachery and unfair fights, and are wise enough to prepare for them.
The best way to deal with them is: to be honest to the innocent, true to your comrades and just unto the end of your days.  Like anyone has that much patience?
Their leader is Lady.  Sometimes she's called Lady Celeste, but her true name is just Lady.

*Hunters
Kinda like the Knights, but not as noble and scrupulous.  A little vigilante-ish, perhaps.  The Knights won't shoot someone in the back, or conduct a major offensive raid; the Hunters will.  However, they're fairly friendly guys most of the time, unless you're blowing up the innocent.
The best way to deal with them is: Be kind, courtious, respectable, and decorate the prow of your ship with row upon row of Denizen kill-markers.
Their chief is Maia.

*Rockhounds
Miners.  Traders, also, and explorers, to an extent.  They like making cash, but not by shooting up other people to get it.  Much easier to pull it out of rocks, or occasionally rip someone off, though they will give fair prices if they see no particular reason to do otherwise.  Your basic gruff, honest, hard-working roughnecks.
The best way to deal with them is: "Yo, any big strikes lately?"  To which the typical response would be "Yes, and if you try to claim-jump me you'll have a missile down the throat."
Their chief is Codger.

*Demons
Short for Speed Demons.  Racers, daredevils, stuntmen.  Wild guys.  Their objective in life is to go fast, have fun, and do things nobody's ever been crazy enough to try.  If there's something /exciting/ to do, they'll do it, though fighting generally doesn't rank as "exciting" very much.  They'll be the first in line to try to skim through a nebula or rockfield at relativistic speeds.  Because of this, sometimes they're enlisted as messengers and such.  They are reckless, but not suicidal.
The best way to deal with them is: "Hey, bet I can get to that rock before you can!"  To which the typical response would be "Hah!  Eat my wake, slowsucker!"
Their chief is Kestrel.

*Outsiders
Explorers.  Wanderers.  Nomads.  They wander the far reaches; if this is the Edge of Infinity, they won't stop until they reach the Middle of Infinity.  Their maps and understanding of the universe are nigh-upon second to none, and they're often the first people to stumble across something new and interesting.  However, they also tend to be somewhat isolationist, not to say just plain weird.  They are passionate about exploration, and actual people and such generally come second or third in importance.
The best way to deal with them is: "Hey, found anything new and wonderful?"  To which the typical response would be "Yep!  I saw X and Y and Z and........ *continues till you die of boredom*"
Their chief is Silence.

*Guild of the Sun
Traders.  Merchants.  Buyers and sellers.  Melnorme.  Always looking out for something interesting, valuable, unique.  Iron-clad guarentees.  They back the one real currency around, the zloty.  They are sorta like Rescue in that they trade with anyone who doesn't shoot at them.  Being a Bad Customer will get you very very tough deals, while going out of your way to be a Good Customer will get you discounts, credit as long as your leg (pseudopod?), and Special Deals that other people won't even get hints of.
The best way to deal with them is: "Ooooh, how much for that shiny little thing?"  To which the typical response would be a winning smile, a friendly pat on the back, and a number that'd make your brain crawl out of your ear and try to hide in your shirt.  And you'd probably pay it, too.
Their chief is Keeper.


(Grey Hats)
*Troubleshooters
They look for trouble.  Then they shoot it.  It doesn't matter who started the trouble.  They see it as their duty to keep the peace, at all costs.  And they have lots of muscle to enforce it, and relatively little concern for collateral damage.  Just a taaaad fanatical.  Unbending, humorless policemen to a T, to whom the letter of the law is always more important than the word, or the spirit.
The best way to deal with them is: "Don't mind me, just passing through... guns?  What guns?  Oh, THESE guns!  I just like to take pot-shots at rocks, you know, do a bit of target practice..."  To which the typical response would be "I /see/.  *writes a little note on a notepad that you just know is going to have every Troubleshooter within three Realms watching you like a hawk*".  Utterly humorless.  Don't even try.  Really.  Just don't.
Their chief is Judge.

*Toughs
Mercenaries.  They get paid to shoot stuff.  It doesn't make any difference what; maybe they'll even shoot each other.  They tend to be rather stuffy and stodgy, with much talk of Real Military Men and Proper Procedures.  Strictly regimented, organized and ranked.  Unimaginative and beauracratic, but also very disciplined and brave warriors.  They do almost everything By The Book, but it really is quite a good book when it comes down to tactics and battle.
The best way to deal with them is: "Greetings, Captain!  I wish to join the ranks of the noble Toughs!"  To which the typical response would be "Jolly good show.  You are now a private.  Here's a mop and bucket.  With only fifteen years dilegent work and a lot of luck, you'll be a corperal."
Their chief is the Commodore.

*Dancers
Mystics.  Explorers.  Weirdos.  Sufis.  It's pretty hard to get anything meaningful out of most of these guys, and it's either because they're utterly insane or because they see things on levels you can hardly imagine.  They DO tend to know a lot about how the Edge of Infinity works; they tend to be meticulous scholars, researchers and record-keepers.  Even if they are half-cracked.
The best way to deal with them is: "Om mani padme hum..."
Their chief is Dawn.

*Prowlers
Spies.  Sneaks.  Information brokers.  Lurkers.  They hang around all over the place, and sometimes you even see them.  Nobody knows where their home base is, or if there's more than one.  That may well be because nobody's survived to spread the tale.  Rather oblique at times, though they occasionally show hints of being generally good-hearted.  Think Musin, perhaps.  They are discreet in the extreme, and seldom give away information on their own affairs and dealings.  They have their own agendas and such, but unlike Dark Lightning, they're not /always/ sinister and malevolant.
The best way to deal with them is: "*blink*  *blinkblink*  Wow.  Where did all you guys come from?"  To which the typical response would be "*grin*  Wouldn't you just like to know?  Now, we have a proposition for you..."
Their chief is Wraith

*Exiles
Wanderers.  Outcasts, though from what, nobody knows.  Their exile is self-imposed, and they ain't telling why.  They can be... erratic at times.  Very clannish, very inward-turned, somewhat xenophobic perhaps.  Consumed by their own grief, though for what, who knows?  They move in convoys.  And they sometimes spill the oddest bits of information.  What more might they be hiding?  Kinda shell-shocked, not trusting anyone.
The best way to deal with them is: To watch quietly, from a distance, then leave respectfully and not come back.
Their chief is Eternity



*Dramatis Personae, both faction members and independants

Serenity
      Affiliations: Is pretty tight with the Knights and Hunters, though more the latter.  Actually kinda likes the Buccaneers.  Distrusts the Prowlers, and the Guild (for their seeming cold-bloodedness).  Enemies of the Renegades, Marauders and Denizens.  Is nigh-worshipped by the Rockhounds, and admired by Rescue and Outsiders, all of whom she's helped out of jams..  Disdains the Toughs and hates the Troubleshooters, both for their lack of humor and imagination.  Somewhat indifferent towards the Dancers and Exiles.
   Description: Senrenity is a somewhat classical hero.  Brave, noble, powerful, just, savior of the weak and scourge of the evil.  However, she tends to be fairly carefree and hearty, declining any particular membership though both the Knights and Hunters would snap her up in an instant.  She actually gets along very well with the Buccaneers, because they're so much /fun/.  Think a little like Admiral Aya from UF, hehehe.  A bit of a wildcard.  Serenity to her friends, She Who Must Be Avoided to her enemies.

The Prophet
      Affiliations: Isolationist.  Even the Outsiders and Dancers think he's kinda weird.  However, he's one of the few people that the Exiles will tolerate to any degree.  He's wandered off with the Guild's stuff a time or two, so they're not especially fond of him, though the Rockhounds consider him at least good for a laugh.  The White Hats generally consider him an irritating trouble-magnet, and the Black Hats consider him someone handy to mug.
   Description:  Typical wandering mad prophet.  Of course, he knows more than people think.  And in typical prophetic fashion, when he reveals what he knows, it's often utter gibberish.  In general, he's a rather nice, somewhat absent-minded old guy, wandering around poking into weird stuff.  He'll wander across a battlefield without seeming to notice it, and come out untouched on the other side.  Sometimes he absently gives clues about things nobody else has any idea about, which makes one wonder just what he's been poking into, and how much attention he REALLY pays to life...

Angel
      Affiliations: She's rather in with the Renegades actually, though more on a basis of philosophy than anything practical: she only cares about her friends.  This gets her some respect from the Buccaneers and Hunters and Toughs, though the Knights and Outsiders and Rockhounds generally condemn her for her cold-heartedness.  However, she does have a few friends amoung the Dancers and even, it's rumored, the Prowlers ane Exiles.  She is tied up with Dark Lightning also, though it is unclear precisely how.  The Troubleshooters consider her a VERY dangerous renegade.  For some reason, she always protects The Prophet.
   Description:  Angel, as in, Guardian Angel.  She's a little like a mix between Serenity and a Rescue.  She protects those she chooses.  Her criteria for whom she protects and when are her own, and don't seem to make much sense to other people.  She is rather darker than Serenity, and knows some very interesting things about the Exiles and Dark Lightning.  Getting her to talk about it though, is not going to be easy.

Music
   Affiliations: He's a penultimate Outsider.  He knows relatively a lot about the Dancers and Guild of the Sun, and has some unfounded but astute suspicions about Dark Lightning.  He is FANATICALLY curious about the Exiles, and pesters them as much as he can get away with; the Guild, Dancers and Prowlers all have sold him information on them, and he's even bought Exile booty from the Denizens and Buccaneers.  Most people consider him fairly nice, in a somewhat odd sort of way.
   Description:  A little lonely, a little odd, a little inisightful.  Curious.  Wandering.  Melencholy at times.  He's a bit of a detective at times; he can get really excited when he's puzzling facts and clues together.  He doesn't care much for history though; it's a bit of a blind spot for him.

Agate
   Affiliations:  Rockhound.  
   Description:  

Reaver
   Affiliations:  Nobody likes him.  He's a thug.
   Description:  The biggest, nastiest pirate who ever was antisocial enough to raid from the Denizens.  That about sums it up.  He has a small gang, not big enough to become a faction, but more sorta a mafia-esque operation.

Murder
   Affiliations:  Not even the Denizens and Marauders like him, 'nuff said.  The Renegades MIGHT take him if he weren't an utter psychopath.  He's the sworn enemy of just about everyone, and he's so good that he's still alive and causing havoc.  The Exiles of all people have a big bounty out on his head, but not even the most powerful teams of Knights or Toughs or Buccaneers have been able to collect.
   Description:  Not Nice At All, in a force-of-nature sort of way.  He's rather like a hurricane: he comes in, bashes lots of things up rather randomly, and leaves.  Not even Rescue is safe.

Fairchild
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Gabriel Angelfire
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Gateway
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Harpie
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Hatred
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Holt
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Kilroy
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Clotho, Atropos and Lachesis
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Lunatic High
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Marl
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Marduk
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Starr
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Mongoose
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Pegasus
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Phoenix
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Psi
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Fury
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Cavaleer
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Saboteur
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Scarlet Lady
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Meteor
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Skyringer
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Steel
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Sunsoar
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Tapper
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Templar
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

The Impressive Clergyman?
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Trouble
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Valor
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Whisper
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  

Wind
   Affiliations:  
   Description:  







PLOT:

Here's a proposition.  How about a sorta Mad Max, post-apocalyptic scenerio?  The Edge of Infinity is part of a universe that has been shattered, rent and rendered unrecognizable by some calamity.  Each Faction has some memory of this, and of the secrets and wonders that existed in the society before it; however, all these views are distorted by time and overlain by myth.

Are the Mists of the Outer Reaches starting to encroach upon the Realms?  Is this natural or artificial?  Merely a sign of something bigger?  The Boxes of Orden, ie some great, fundamental artifact that is affecting the nature of the Edge...

Mining the Mists tends to attract unpleasant things.

There are several central plotlines, historical points, themes and events.  How these happen and are presented differs depending on with whom you ally, where you explore, what you find, and what choices you make.  There is one central core that you get different reflections of.




PLACES:

Realms:

Taureth
Gerund
Outcast
Ferih Nebula
Matrix
Tarch Station
Freebooter
Rockholm
Catrock, Birdrock, Dogrock, Mouserock
Tone Nebula
Meteor Storm
Frontier Web
Lightweb
Pinwheel
Dopefish Sector
Laberynth
The Rain
God's Bathtub Drain (black hole)
The Lighthouse (pulsar)
The Grave
Tomb of the Warriors (think Interesting Times...)
The Mirrors
Crystal Tear
The Fortress
The Fleet
The Dream
Echo
The Arc
Paradox Fountain
Black Star Rising
The Road
Sunshine at Midnight
One-Horse Town
Magic Sings
Lost Again
Leaf
Red Fire
Winter
Here For You
Evening Tides
Flowers
Mountain
Lonely Night
Hounds









ECONOMY:
How do you get money?  What kind of stuff is intrinsicly valuable?
Mining --asteroids, planets, gas/nebulae
Treasure hunting --artifacts, certain people want certain rarities (Melnorme in SC2)
Salvage/combat
Privateering/bounties/mercenary
piracy
Mapmaking/exploration
Rare phenomina, a la Rainbow Worlds
Trading/bartering --some people may be roaming or escaping and need certain things

Mining.  Asteroids, mainly, and nebulae.  Some kind of magnetic/gravitic scoop-beam.  It only pulls off the outer layer of the asteroid.  Progressively better ones either mine more proportionally, or do it faster, or both.  Nebulae are big finds 'cause you can fly through 'em at high speed and scoop nicely.



